# Predicting-Covid-19-Cases-and-Deaths-in-USA
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). It was first identified in December 2019 in Wuhan, China, and has resulted in an ongoing pandemic till date. Some reports showed that the first case was detected on 17 November 2019. Some early reports suggested that virus may have been transmitted from animal to person, however the extent and modes of transmission are not completely understood yet. Since the beginning of 2020, the world is going through a difficult time and fighting with this deadly virus, almost all the regions of the world have been shut down for numerous months and among all, USA is the hardest hit country. As a result of scientific advancement, we are able to develop a vaccine within a year of start of a pandemic, however the various aspects of the virus such as the extent and means of transmission, effect on the human health, immunity developed on the humans after the infection and many more are still unclear. Hence, as a data scientist, I aim to explore the available data (confirmed cases and death) of the covid-19 and their relationship to the additional aspects of the virus transmission such as population density of the area, mass gatherings (holidays celebration and protests) and the effectiveness of the various mitigation efforts implemented by the administration such as stay at home order and shutdowns of the restaurants and bars. 
In particular, I will analyze the county-level data of Illinois state and build a robust model to predict the new cases and deaths in the particular county for the future 14 days. These predictions will guide the corresponding authorities in advance to prepare early and deploy the appropriate health care services to the area to save the lives. Rather than forecasting future by past data only, I will perform multivariate time series analysis including various factors which are considered as crucial in virus transmission such as: stay home order and mass gatherings including holiday celebrations/protests. In addition, since the numerous aspects of the transmission of the virus is still not understood well, I will perform various inferential statistics to explore the relationship between the transmission rate and various covid mitigation efforts and events.
